Welcome to the second module in
the course Applied Plotting, Charting and
Data Representation in Python.
In the first module, we touched on
the some of the fundamentals of
putting together good
information graphics.
Drawing on influential thinkers in
the field, such Alberto Cairo and
Edward Tufte.
In this module, we're going to pivot and
focus on skills for
building basic charts using
the Python based Matplotlib tool kit.
Matplotlib is a powerful open source tool
kit for representing and visualizing data.
Its creator, John Hunter,
was heavily inspired
by the MATLAB programming environment and
borrows many of these elements.
Matplotlib can be a bit confusing
to learn from web resources.
There's a traditional object-oriented API,
but
there's also a MATLAB-like
scripting model.
And I've found that it's not always clear
why a given script from a blog post might
work or not work.
I'm going to try and
demystify this a bit for
you by providing a structured
introduction to the toolkit.
After the architecture introduction,
we're going to dive right into
creating charts and graphs.
In this module, we're going to focus
on some of the basics, scatter plots,
line graphs, and bar charts.
We're also going to touch on how to
label pieces of your charts to improve
readability, and draw the user's
attention to specific details.
And how to manipulate data elements
in a plotting environment.
From here on out there
will be fewer lectures and
more emphasis on the module will be put
on the plotting and charting assignments.
At the end of modules two, three and four,
you should be able to produce publication
quality charts and
figures using a breadth of data.
Let's dive in.